{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset238 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\lang9 Mesopotamian deities:\fs22\par
\par
A\par
An/Anu - \b0 Mesopotamian sky-god, one of the supreme deities; known as An in Sumerian and Anu in Akkadian.\par
\b An\f1\'9aar and Ki\'9aar - \b0 An\'9aar and Ki\'9aar are a pair of primordial gods that, with very few exceptions, only occur in En\u363?ma eli\'9a, the so-called "Babylonian Creation Story." They can be considered as part of an invented mythology that had the goal of creating a new cosmology for the god Marduk.\par
\b Anunna - \b0 The term Anunna indicates a group of gods in the Mesopotamian pantheon. Later on, it is sometimes used to describe the underworld gods (as opposed to the gods of heaven, the Igigi).\par
\b Asalluhi - \b0 Asalluhi is the son of Enki/Ea and a god of incantations and magic, sometimes merged with Marduk. The etymology and meaning of his name are unclear.\par
\b Aya - \b0 Goddess of light and wife of Utu/\'8aama\'9a, who was worshipped in the cities of Sippar and Larsa.\par
\par
\b B\par
Baba - \b0 Patron goddess of Girsu and the city-state of Laga\'9a. Beginning in the second millennium BCE she became known as a healing goddess.\par
\par
\b D\par
Dagan - \b0 Male deity of a possibly West Semitic origin with a focus on the Middle and Upper Euphrates, most commonly attested in Mesopotamia in the late 3rd and early 2nd millennia BCE.\par
\b Damu - \b0 Damu is the son of the healing goddess Gula/Ninkarrak and a healing god himself.\par
\par
\b E\par
Enki/Ea - \b0 Mischievous god of wisdom, magic and incantations who resides in the ocean under the earth.\par
\b Enili/Ellil - \b0 Enlil was one of the supreme deities of the Mesopotamian pantheon. He decreed the fates, his command could not be altered, and he was the god who granted kingship. His temple, \f0\'e9-kur, the "Mountain House," was located in the city of Nippur, the religious centre of Mesopotamia up until the second millennium BCE. His temple was the most important temple in all of southern Mesopotamia.\par
\b Ereskigal - \b0 Ere\f1\'9akigal, whose name translates as "Lady of the Great Earth", rules the underworld.\par
\b Erra - \b0 God of war and plagues, who later became closely associated with the underworld god Nergal\par
\par
\b G\par
Gestinanna - \b0 Ge\'9atinanna is an early goddess from southern Mesopotamia. She is the sister of Dumuzi and appears to be associated with writing and with the netherworld.\par
\b Girra - \b0 God of fire and light, Girra accompanied Mesopotamians in their daily lives. He originated as a Sumerian god but his cult transcended time. He was worshipped throughout Mesopotamian history until the Seleucid period.\par
\b Gula - \b0 Gula/Ninkarrak is a healing deity also known as Ninisinna, "Lady of Isin".\par
\par
\b H\par
Haya - \b0 Spouse of Nidaba/Nissaba, goddess of grain and scribes, he is known both as a "door-keeper" and associated with the scribal arts.\par
\par
\b I\par
Igigi/Igigu -  \b0 This Semitic term describes a group of possibly seven or eight gods. It is likely that the god Marduk was one of them, but the total membership in this group is unclear and likely changed over time.\par
\b Inana/Istar - \b0 Inana (Sumerian)/I\'9atar (Akkadian) is among the most important deities and the most important goddess in the Mesopotamian pantheon. She is primarily known as the goddess of sexual love but is equally prominent as the goddess of warfare. In her astral aspect, Inana/I\'9atar is the planet Venus, the morning and the evening star.\par
\b Iskur/Adad - \b0 Mesopotamian storm god, associated with both life-giving and destructive properties of rain and flood.\par
\b Istaran - \b0 The male patron deity of Der, who is associated with justice.\par
\par
\b L\par
Lugalirra and Meslamtaea - \b0 Underworld deities that often occur together, also called the 'Divine Twins'. They are associated with the underworld god Nergal. Later traditions imagine them as guardians to the entrance of the underworld.\par
\par
\b M\par
Marduk - \b0 Marduk rose from an obscure deity in the third millennium BCE to become one of the most important gods and the head of the Mesopotamian pantheon in the first millennium. He was the patron god of the city of Babylon, where his temple tower, the ziggurat  Etemenanki ("Temple (that is) the foundation of the heavens and the earth") served as the model for the famous "tower of Babel." In the first millennium, he was often referred to as Bel, the Akkadian word for "Lord."\par
\b Mother Goddess - \b0 The Mesopotamian mother goddess is known under many names, the most prominent of which is the Sumerian name Nintud/Nintur. Other frequent names are Ninmah and Belet-ili. She was in charge of pregnancy and birth and, especially in earlier periods, appears as the creator of humankind.\par
\par
\b N\par
Nabu \b0 - Patron deity of Borsippa, god of wisdom and writing. In the first millennium BCE, Nabu is one of the most important Mesopotamian deities. First a minister of Marduk, he later becomes his co-regent at the head of the pantheon. Nabu's influence on Mesopotamian culture is significant well into the later periods. Nabu appears in the Bible as Nebo.\par
\b Namma/Nammu - \b0 Goddess from Eridu. She is known as the mother of the god Enki/Ea as well as the mother goddess who gave birth to the cosmos and all the gods. Like her son Enki/Ea she is also associated with magic. In later times, her role is taken on by Tiamat.\par
\b Nanna/Suen - \b0 Mesopotamian moon god. He was called Nanna in Sumerian, and Su'en or Sin in Akkadian. The earliest writings of both are roughly contemporary, and occur interchangeably. An additional name, which is only attested in literary texts, is Dilimbabbar. The true etymologies of both Nanna and Su'en remain unclear (Krebernik 1993-98b: 360-64).\par
\b Nergal - \b0 Nergal is the (southern) Mesopotamian god of death, pestilence and plague, and Lord of the Underworld.\par
\b Nidaba - \b0 Sumerian goddess of grain and writing, patron deity of the city Ere\'9a. Nidaba's glory attracted her fall: her scribal functions were usurped by the god Nabu as he rose to power in the Old Babylonian period.\par
\b Ninazu - \b0 Underworld deity with connections to agriculture, war and snakes; patron god of the cities of Enegi and E\'9anunna.\par
\b Ningiszida - \b0 A male deity of the town of Gi\'9abanda, which lies upstream from Ur. Ningi\'9azida is connected with vegetation and the underworld.\par
\b Ninisinna - \b0 Healing goddess and patron deity of the city of Isin.\par
\b Ninlil - \b0 A goddess mainly known as the wife of Enlil, the head of the early Mesopotamian pantheon, and later of A\'9a\'9aur, the head of the Assyrian pantheon. She first appears in the late fourth millennium BCE and survived into the first centuries CE. She was at times syncretised with various healing and mother goddesses as well as with the goddess I\'9atar.\par
\b Ninsi\rquote anna - \b0 Deity of the planet Venus; an aspect of Inana/I\'9atar as Venus.\par
\b Ninsumun - \b0 The divine mother of legendary king Gilgame\'9a, she was married to Lugalbanda, a legendary king of Uruk and Gilgame\'9a's father.\par
\b Numusda - \b0 Patron deity of the city of Kazallu, he was the son of the moon god Nanna/Suen.\par
\b Nuska/Nusku - \b0 A god of fire and light, and minister of Enlil.\par
\par
\b P\par
Pabilsag - \b0 Patron god of the city of Larak. He was the husband of the healing goddess Gula/Ninkarrak/Ninisinna. He was also identified with the god Ningirsu/Ninurta.\par
\b Papsukkal \b0 - Papsukkal is an attendant deity serving higher gods (usually Anu) as minister.\par
\par
\b S\par
Sala - \b0 Consort of the storm god Adad, probably of non-Mesopotamian origin.\par
\par
\b T\par
Tasmetu - \b0 Divine consort of the scribe god Nabu, associated with wisdom and sexual attractiveness.\b\par
Tiamat - \b0 Tiamat is a personification of the primordial sea from which the gods were first created. She is also the main adversary of Marduk in the En\u363?ma Eli\'9a.\par
\par
\b U\par
Utu/Samas \b0 - Mesopotamian sun god, who was associated with life, justice, divination and the netherworld.\par
\par
\b Z\par
Zababa - \b0 Zababa is a warrior god, patron deity of Ki\'9a and consort of goddesses Baba and I\'9atar.\par
\par
Site link for more details on Mesopotamian deities:\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/amgg/listofdeities/index.html }}{\fldrslt{http://oracc.museum.upenn.edu/amgg/listofdeities/index.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
}
 