{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Segoe UI;}{\f1\fnil Segoe UI;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs24\lang9 Elements:\b0\par
There are many elementals out in the various realms; these vary based on classic and non classic elements, strains from different creator deities, variations, combinations or sub types of other elements. This list will be updated over time but for now:\par
\par
\b Classic elements:\b0\par
These are the 4 basics commonly found everywhere you could look. Everyone has the four basics; however they lean more to one or two of them.\par
Fire , Water , Earth and Air\par
\par
\b Non Classical Elements:\b0\par
With non- classical elements they can be directly from deities, due to someone\rquote s kintype, or even a combination of two of the classic/basic four elements; this information will try to list as many non classics; BUT may be added to later on.\par
\par
\b Unique Non-Classical elements:\par
\par
Light:\par
\b0 Light is an energy that contrary to belief, does not come from light sources\'85it is an element that has a lot more of an ability to cleanse and heal others; it tends to linger around and have a mental and emotional effect on the user or person its used on. Light is seen as the opposite to darkness.\par
\par
\b Strains of Light:\b0\par
\b Ma\rquote at\rquote s strain \b0 - Order is the strain of light that directly comes from Ma\rquote at; her light has a rather balancing effect on others, bringing out hidden traits in someone\rquote s personality. Her Maati (An angelic race) all carry her strain of light.\par
\par
\b Practices That Use Light Energy\par
Reiki \b0 - Reiki is a Japanese energetic technique for healing yourself or another, The most common element used with Reiki is light but it can also be used in conjunction with other healing based elements.\par
\par
\b Darkness:\b0\par
Darkness is an element that has high corruptive qualities; this is more common in some Deities strains over others. Much like light darkness tends to linger around and some strains can have mental and emotional effects on the users or those it is used on. \par
Darkness is a very offensive element to have and can lead to many corruptive and powerful attacks and abilities. Again it is seen as the opposite to Light.\par
\b\par
Strains of Darkness:\par
Nyx\rquote s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Nyx\f1\rquote\f0 s darkness is highly corruptive; due to her strain having its own sentience it has a tendency too corrupt others even when not willed by the user; it is particularly painful for light beings as it has an accelerated rate of corruption with them. This strain of darkness commonly matches Nyx\f1\rquote\f0 s mental state and will start to manipulate those with the strain into thinking more aligned with her thoughts.\par
\par
\b Erebus\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Erebus\f1\rquote\f0 s strain of darkness has corruptive qualities but at a much less degree than that of Nyx\f1\rquote\f0 s, Like her strain Erebus\f1\rquote\f0 s strain contains its own sentience. Unlike Nyx\f1\rquote\f0 s strain it does not affect mental or emotional states. However this darkness can be often confused with fire or heated elements when over looked as it has a much higher temperature then any other strain of darkness.\par
\b\par
Kingu\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Kingu\f1\rquote\f0 s darkness has a high acidic and poisonous nature, often leading to toxic damage to others energy systems or melting of flesh and bone when exposed to it. As Tiamat\f1\rquote\f0 s son his darkness carries very similar prosperities to her Void.\par
\b\par
Kauket\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Kauket\f1\rquote\f0 s strain has ben described as calm or like a nights sky; it is often seen as being strongly aligned with lunar energy. Kuk\f1\rquote\f0 s strain is almost identical to Kauket\f1\rquote\f0 s.\par
\b\par
Kuk\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Kuk\f1\rquote\f0 s strain of darkness much like Kauket\f1\rquote\f0 s strain has been described as being calm like the nights sky; often being seen as strongly aligned with lunar energy.\par
\par
\b Cosmic:\b0\par
Cosmic is an element that is often seen as similar to void as both contain a fair number of other elements. Unlike void; and not including void; cosmic contains all elements. Cosmic is a rather interesting and highly dangerous; even when watered down; as it can be used for anything involving the cosmos; black holes, white hole, suns, stars, etc\par
\par
\b Strain\lang5129 s\lang9  of Cosmic:\par
Atum's Strain \b0 - Atum's strain is known to be the creative force of the cosmic affinity and tends to also be more stellar in nature. While this strain is naturally this way, it can also be destructive due to it's balancing/judgment properties. This strain usually has authoritative vibes to it and tends to be easily picked up on by energy sensitive people. Atum's energy naturally appears as a supernova that typically consists of red, white, and yellow. However, when the energy is mixed it appears as a stellar light orange in appearance.\par
\par
\b Lunar:\b0\par
Lunar as a element is rarely used outside of healing; it has many cooling and calming effects and can sooth people. Lunar is actually a sub type of Cosmic as it is tied to the stars and many who have lunar can learn how to summon constellations and how to use the moons gravitational pull; example: Lunar has strong pulls over water elements and can be used quite offensively against those with water affinities; IF the person using lunar is stronger than the person using water.\par
\b\par
Solar:\par
\b0 Solar is an element stars (suns are actually large stars) tend to all contain. But the energy strains do not directly come from the stars themselves but rather from Solar Primordial\f1\rquote\f0 s or deities. Solar can reach temperatures as high as super nova\f1\rquote\f0 s if willed to, and often remain hot even when lessoned to a bearable degree.\par
\b\par
Strains of Solar:\par
Shamash\f1\rquote\f0 s Strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Shamash\f1\rquote\f0 s strain burns hot but is bearable when not pushed to higher limits. Shamash\f1\rquote\f0 s strain has its own sentience however it has not been seen or proven as being hostile to other energies (like Nyx\f1\rquote\f0 s strain of darkness is towards others without her strain).\par
\par
\b\i Ra\f1\rquote\f0 s Strain \f1\endash\f0  \b0\i0 Ra\f1\rquote\f0 s strain has a rather strong intensity to it, often causing people to feel as tho they are walking through a desert. His solar energy often has a golden shine to it with deep red and oranges mixed though (This is based on how I\f1\rquote\f0 ve seen his energy)\par
\b\par
Nergal\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Unlike other solar deities Nergal\f1\rquote\f0 s energy is seen as a black sun; it is seen as being heavily mixed with darkness and id often see as being linked to pestilence. Nergal\f1\rquote\f0 s strain is the polar opposite to Samas\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \par
\b\par
Sol\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Sol\f1\rquote\f0 s strain unlike the other feels more like a primal heat; where it\f1\rquote\f0 s based on instinct rather than intent or will. It reacts like an animal would towards people, \f1\ldblquote\f0 attacking\f1\rdblquote\f0  (burning at high temperatures) when threatened/feeling unsafe or \f1\ldblquote\f0 pampers\f1\rdblquote\f0  (warms and comforts) when around allies/friends/safety/etc(edited)\par
\par
\b Void:\b0\par
Void is an element that originates from a plane called \f1\ldblquote\f0 The Void\f1\rdblquote\f0 , The void is made fully out of this energy type and is normally seen as being completely empty; which is the truth as matter is spread throughout The Void. The energy its self is formless and can take on any properties of other elements (due to containing all other elements) if the user wills it to.\par
\par
\b Strains of Void:\par
Tiamat\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Like her son Kingu\f1\rquote\f0 s darkness, Tiamat\f1\rquote\f0 s void is acidic and toxic. If you come in contact with this strain be aware it is hard to counter as is \par
\par
\b Khaos\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  People often confuse her strain classifying it as chaos rather then void. This is both correct and incorrect as yes her energy is highly chaotic however chaos is a reaction of void; which still makes her strain void.\par
\par
\b Chaos:\par
\b0 Chaos is seen as formless matter that existed prior to the creation of the universe. Due to cosmic existing before creation, we can come to the conclusion that aside from void chaos may have a relationship with cosmic as well. In my own personal views, void is nothingness and is only a place that merely houses chaotic energy. In mythology void is mainly seen as a vehicle that mainly houses the elements needed to create the universe and have never been seen to truly be a reactive force. \b\par
\par
Time:\par
\b0 Chronos is one of the most common and well known deity with time; it is currently unknown if there are other deities with time, but it is likely to be some in existence; added those with void or cosmic have a high chance to be able to use time. Time is another highly dangerous affinity as it can effectively increase/slow the flow of time, even freeze it pausing time in the area until released. This affinity is normally limited to certain range but depending on how it\f1\rquote\f0 s used this affinity has numerous good and evil uses.\par
\par
\b Death:\b0\par
Death energy is released when someone or something dies. Normally only a small amount of energy is released and dissipates within minutes. Gaining death as an affinity is really only down two ways; first you can be born with it, some races such as reapers or banshees for example are born with death. Or you can seek out a death deity and ask them to give you their strain of death.\par
\par
\b Strains of Death:\par
Macha\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Macha\f1\rquote\f0 s strain is intimidating, and infectious; one small cut or stab and it spreads, rotting and corrupting energy matching that energies natural flow. I would like to say I suspect Macha\f1\rquote\f0 s strain has its own form of sentience (however I do not know this for sure and do not want to state misinformation) as when it is in use it seems to act without being willed by Macha.\par
\b\par
Life/Aether:\par
\b0 Life/Aether is the polar opposite element to death. Contrary to belief it is not found in every living being. This affinity is in itself life; it can make things grow faster, heal faster. Etheric side plants can grow from a seed to pull grown in a matter on minutes from using life/Aether. Life/Aether is more of a defensive affinity, it also can increase regeneration. There have been cases where people have used life/Aether offensively to corrupt another\f1\rquote\f0 s energy system, or leach life from that person they are fighting.\par
\par
\b Strains of Life/Aether:\par
Prometheus\f1\rquote\f0 s strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Prometheus\f1\rquote\f0 s strain of Aether is highly passive and radiates throughout the energy system and aura of the user; it helps speed up the growth of nature around the user with every step they take.\par
\par
\b Elemental combinations and Variations:\b0\par
\b\par
Earth Variations:\par
Metal:\par
\b0 Metal is a sub type of the earth element. It is mostly seen in the Shinto or Chinese beliefs as one of the five main elements. It is a rather dense element and does amplify many defensive abilities. Metal energy is commonly seen as being weaker against heated elements like fire, solar or lava.\par
\b\par
Wood:\par
\b0 Wood is often confused with nature as both are linked to trees and the environment. Wood is another element often seen in Shinto or Chinese beliefs as one of the five main elements. It is much lighter in density than some of the other sub type earth elements; but this element can be modified as those who use it can modify what wood they take prosperities from; like choosing woods with a higher density for defensive, toxic woods for offense, or even woods that take longer to be effected by fire.\par
\b\par
Combinations:\par
Nature:\par
\b0 This one is often confused as a sub type of earth but it is a combination of earth and life/Aether. It is highly linked to plant life and animals; forest elementals are the most common type of being with nature affinities, second being some fae.\par
\b\par
Lava:\par
\b0 Lava is a combination of earth and fire. It is predominantly a sub type of the two elements combined to make it but there are direct strains of lava from deities. It is both a defensive and offensive elemental affinity; often doing passive damage when defending against others attacks.\par
\par
\b Ice:\b0\par
Ice is often seen as both a combination and a variant. Combination wise it is a mix of water and air; this is where air is used to oxidize the water rapidly dropping its temperature freezing it. Variation wise those with water or ice affinity can rapidly cool water freezing it solid without the need to use air.\par
\par
\b Strains of Ice:\par
Himavat\f1\rquote\f0 s Strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Is entirely made of ice/snow rather than a combination. It has been confused with having sentience as it has a natural area of effect (AOE) which cools the area and freeze it when it reaches freezing temperatures. Anyone who directly has this strain will naturally experience the AOE\par
\par
\b Tamayori\f1\rquote\f0 s Strain \b0\f1\endash\f0  Tamayori\f1\rquote\f0 s strain is like the open ocean, it vibrates chilling even the water in the air around you. It pulses like the waves crashing on the beach. Her strain is rather influenced by her mood and can go from calm to blizzard in seconds.\par
\b\par
Storm:\par
\b0 Storm is an element which is a combination of multiple elements; commonly air and water but other elements can be added to it to create unique mixes like fire or acidic rain. Storm is\par
\par
\b Lightening:\b0\par
Lightening is sub type of storm; again it is a mix of multiple elements. Lightening as a combination is seen as wind and fire mixing; however even just using wind you can create lightening so many with a wind affinity will find lightening easy. Like the four basics anyone who knows how lightening works can actually learn how to use it.\par
}
 