{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Segoe UI;}{\f1\fnil Segoe UI;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset238 Segoe UI;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\b\f0\fs32\lang9 Magick Paths & Traditions\ulnone\b0\fs24\par
\par
\b AGNOSTICISM: \b0 An intellectual doctrine or attitude affirming the uncertainty of all claims to ultimate knowledge.\par
 \par
\b ALCHEMY: \b0 A ceremonial magick in which the goal is to transmute a common substance usually of little value into a more valuable substance such as lead to gold. However this is actually code for transmutation of ourselves into Divine beings.\par
\par
\b ALEXANDRIAN WICCA: \b0 A Wiccan tradition founded by Alex Sanders in England and disputed as being the original form of Wicca instead of Gardnerian Wicca. Sanders claimed to have been initiated as a Hereditary Witch by his grandmother but critics claim many Alexandrian rituals are almost identical to Gardnerian ones, with a little ceremonial magick and Judeo-Christian mysteries thrown in. Covens usually work skyclad. The eight Sabbats are observed and the Goddess and God are revered. Alexandrian Wiccans are considered to be Traditional Witches who trace their line of initiatory descent from Alex and Maxine Sanders, through a line of Alexandrian High Priests and High Priestesses, who follow the Alexandrian Book of Shadows, and who practice the Alexandrian Tradition of Wicca.\par
\par
\b ALGARD WICCA: \b0 A Wiccan tradition that combines both Gardnerian and Alexandrian Wicca traditions, founded in 1972 by Mary Nesnick, an American who was initiated into both Gardnerian and Alexandrian traditions.\par
\par
\b ANGLICAN: \b0 The Anglican Church is the Church of England and its overseas offshoots. Anglicanism is a Protestant form of Christianity. It is sometimes seen as being the middle way, between Roman Catholicism and extreme Protestantism. This is because, in the English Reformation, the English Church kept the early Catholic ministry of bishops, priests, and deacons. The critical point which led to the Anglican Church was the outright rejection of the Pope, and so of the Catholic Church as an organisation.\par
\par
\b ATENISM: \b0 Also Amenism. The Aten, the god of Atenism, first appears in texts dating to the 12th dynasty, in the Story of Sinuhe. Here during the Middle Kingdom, the Aten "as the sun disk...was merely one aspect of the sun god Re." The Aten, hence, was a relatively obscure sun god; without the Atenist period, it would barely have figured in Egyptian history. Although there are indications that the Aten was becoming slightly more important in the eighteenth dynasty period\f1\emdash\f0 notably Amenhotep III's naming of his royal barge as Spirit of the Aten. It was Amenhotep IV who introduced the Atenist revolution, in a series of steps culminating in the official installment of the Aten as Egypt's sole god.\par
\par
\b AMERICAN ECLECTIC WICCA: \b0 A broad range of individuals or groups that have based their philosophy, rituals and practices on the published works of Scott Cunningham and StarHawk. American Eclectic Wiccans emphasize spontaneity and intuitive understanding of the Mysteries. Because they downplay, or discarded, the importance of Oaths, Initiations, Lineage, and Tradition many Traditional Wiccans object to these groups using the nameWicca, and believe they should be called American Eclectic Witchcraft.\par
\par
\b AMERICAN TRADITIONAL WICCA: \b0 The groups that have no initiatory connection to Gardner or Sanders, but who have based their rituals and practices on what has been published about the Gardnerian and Alexandrian Traditions; they therefore follow a Wiccan practice based upon Gardnerian or Alexandrian without having initiatory lineage.\par
\par
\b AMERICAN WICCA: \b0 An offshoot of Gardnerian Wicca, This tradition includes Gardnerian material and additional material supplied by the founders. Also known as Mohsian Wicca.\par
\par
\b ANGEL MAGIC: \b0 The art of evoking and invoking Angels to harness their powers or qualities.\par
\par
\b ANIMALISM: \b0 The doctrine that man is a mere animal with no soul or spiritual quality.\par
\par
\b ARCADIAN WICCA: \b0 A Wiccan tradition centered around worship of the Horned God. (covens are open to both males and females)\par
\par
\b ATHEISM: \b0 The belief that no higher power or deities exist.\par
\par
\b ATONISM: \b0 It was High Priest, Seer & Prophet Ankh-An-Aton who dedicated himself toward the purpose of bringing back the minds of his people as members of humanity to the remembrance of those things which are of importance and towards reunion or unification with the divine creator and grower of all life.\par
\par
\b BAPTIST: \b0 Baptists share so-called "orthodox" Christian beliefs with most other moderate or conservative Christian denominations. Some of them are beliefs about one God; Jesus' death, burial, and bodily resurrection; the Trinity (the divinity of Jesus and the Holy Spirit, together with God the Father); the need for salvation; grace; and evangelism and missions.\par
\par
\b BARDIC WICCA: \b0 A mix of Celtic Wicca and Celtic Druidry.\par
\par
\b BRITISH TRADITIONAL WICCA: \b0 The groups of Wiccan Traditions that trace their lineage to Gerald Gardner, and/or to Alex and Maxine Sanders. Some British Traditional Wiccans practice the arts of Traditional Witchcraft from ancestors in ancient Europe, that have been preserved and passed on by the Ordo Anno Mundi, a magical order of Initiates dedicated to the training of its members in the arcane sciences of nature. British Traditional Wiccans experience the same Mysteries, using substantially the same rituals and techniques. Variations may exist between individual Covens, Lineages and Traditions but it is the same Initiatory Mystery Path. The British Traditional groups view Wicca as an Initiatory, Oathbound, Magick-using, Pagan Mystery Priesthood celebrating the Mysteries contained in the Legend of the Descent of the Goddess and in the Charge of the Goddess.\par
\par
\b BRITISH TRADITIONAL WITCHCRAFT: \b0 Witchcraft Traditions tracing descent from a Hereditary, or Traditional, British source, including the Gardnerian and the Alexandrian Wiccan Traditions and their branches and offshoots and several others derived from British sources such as Sybil Leek's Horsa Coven, Plant Bran, and the Clan of Tubal Cain. Some British Traditional Witches consider the term Wicca a synonym for British Traditional Witchcraft, while others reserve the term Wicca for the Gardnerian and Alexandrian Traditions and their offshoots and consider Wicca to be a wholly-contained subset within British Traditional Witchcraft.\par
\par
\b BUDDHISM: \b0 The religion based on the doctrine of Gautama Buddha that says suffering is inseparable from existence and that enlightenment is achieved by the inward extinction of the self and of the senses.\par
\par
\b BRUJERIA: \b0 A Mexican shamanistic magickal system that is an integration of Roman Catholicism and Native American lore. Practitioners are called Bruja (female) and Brujo (male); and Curandera (female) and Cureandero (male). Both Curanderos and Brujos use herbal and folk remedies.\par
\par
\b CALEDONII TRADITION: \b0 A Scottish tradition of Witchcraft that preserves the unique festivals of the Caledoni.\par
\par
\b CALVINISM: \b0 Belongs to the Reformed tradition of Protestantism. This tradition goes back to John Calvin and other theologians.\par
Important Calvinists from Europe include: Martin Bucer, Heinrich Bullinger, Peter Martyr Vermigli, and Huldrych Zwingli, and from England, reformers Thomas Cranmer and John Jewel. Because John Calvin had great influence and played an important role in the confessional and ecclesiastical debates throughout the 17th century, the tradition generally became known as Calvinism.\par
Today, this term also means the doctrines and practices of the Reformed churches, of which Calvin was an early leader, and the system is perhaps best known for its doctrines of predestination and total depravity.\par
\par
\b CARPOCRATIAN: \b0 A sect of Gnosticism.\par
\par
\b CELTIC RECONSTRUCTIONISM: \b0 A culturally specific and historically based pagan path that attempts to recreate the religion of the ancient Celtic peoples of Western Europe and the British Isles. It embodies a strong reverence for nature.\par
\par
\b CELTIC SHAMANISM: \b0 A shamanic path that is based on the Faery Faith of the Celtic peoples of Western Europe and especially of Britain, Scotland, Wales, Ireland, Cornwall, Isle of Man and Brittany.\par
\par
\b CELTIC TRADITIONALIST: \b0 A reconstruction of the beliefs and practices of the original Celtic people. Unlike Druidry, this tradition focuses more on the beliefs of the average Celtic man or woman.\par
\par
\b CELTIC WICCA: \b0 The use of a Celtic and Druidic pantheon mixed with Gardnerian Wicca that heavily stresses the Elements, Nature and the Ancient Ones. Celtic Wicca also focuses on knowledge of, and respect for, the healing and magickal qualities of plants and stones, flowers, trees, elemental spirits, the little people, gnomes and fairies.\par
\par
\b CEREMONIAL MAGICK: \b0 Magick that calls upon the aid of beneficent spirits and is akin to religion. Ceremonial Magick is based upon a blend of doctrines of Plato and other Greek philosophers, Oriental mysticism and Tibetan mysticism which is currently is divided into three forms : Enochian, Thelemic and Eclectic. Enochian Magick originated with John Dee and Edward Kelly in the 16th century and communication with spirits involved the Nineteen Calls (or Keys): incantations in the Enchonian language, a complex language of unknown origin. This system of Magick was revived by the HermeticOrder of the Golden Dawn and studied at length by Aleister Crowley. In turn, Crowley developed the Thelemic Magick system from his studies and Ceremonial Magickians have since expanded to develop Eclectic Magick systems based on a variety of different systems, inclusive of Alchemy, Egyptology, Kabbalistic doctrines, Chaos Magick etc.. Ceremonial Magick requires a rigorous discipline and has an intellectual appeal, the mage derives power from through the successful control of spirits, usually seen as negative spirits which are believed easier to control than positive spirits. Negative spirits may be good, evil, or neutral. In its highest sense, Ceremonial Magick is a transcendental experience that takes the mage into mystical realms and into communication with the Higher Self. Also known as High Magick, Ritual Magick, Theurgic Magick, Theurgy.\par
\par
\b CEREMONIAL WITCHCRAFT: \b0 A tradition of Witchcraft with an emphasis on Egyptian and/or Qabbalistic Ceremonial Magick.\par
\par
\b CHALDEAN MAGICK: \b0 The name Chaldean, in the Book of Daniel and also by many writers of antiquity, was applied to Babylonian magi who were astute in astronomy, but also practiced astrology and magic.\par
\par
\b CHAOS MAGICK: \b0 A modern magical tradition which emphasises the pragmatic use of belief systems and the creation of new and unorthodox methods. Sigils are one of the most used techniques of Chaos Magick. They work by going straight to your subconscious, where they will take effect, without your conscious, realistic brain telling you that what you are attempting is impossible. Many magicians also have personal sigils, which they continuously charge and use as a magickal signature of sorts.\par
\par
\b DEMONISM: \b0 The worship of demons. In nonpagan religions demonism is often used to describe the belief in the existence or powers of demons. A treatise on demons.\par
\par
\b DIANIC WICCA: \b0 A group of Wiccan traditions that focus primarily (but not always exclusively) on the Goddess. Known as the "feminist" movement in Wicca, it was first identified by Margaret Murray in 1921 in "The Witch-Cult in Western Europe". Most Dianic Wiccan traditions follow a Roman or Eclectic Pantheon that reveres Diana, but the term has been applied to traditions embracing other pantheons that are Goddess focused.\par
\par
\b DRAGON MAGICK (Draconian): \b0 The Magickian invokes or evokes the wisdom of Dragons. It teaches you to work in harmony with dragons and with draconic energies and how to befriend draconic entities.\par
\par
\b DRUIDRY: \b0 The paths based on the practices, rituals, and magick of the early Celtic priestly class known as the Druids. Many expressions of the tradition exist, and their differences have often been cause for dissension in the Pagan community. Also known as Druidry.\par
\par
\b DYNION MYWN\b0 : The American branch of Dynion Mwyn, a Welsh tradition named for the faery folk. It emphasizes historical lineage, religious equality, and Welsh mythology and lore. The American branch is called Y Tylwyth Teg.\par
\b\par
EARTH MAGICK: \b0 A magickal system that draws primarily on the Element of Earth and the reverence of Nature.\par
\par
\b EASTERN ORTHODOXY: \b0 Eastern Orthodox believe in everything in the Nicene Creed:\par
I believe in one God, the Father, the Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth and of all things visible and invisible. And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the only begotten Son of God, begotten of the Father before all ages. Light of Light, true God of true God, begotten not created, of one essence with the Father through whom all things were made.For us and for our salvation he came down from heaven and was incarnate by the Holy Spirit and the Virgin Mary and became man. He was crucified for us under Pontius Pilate, and he suffered and was buried. On the third day he rose according to the Scriptures.He ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of the Father. He will come again in glory to judge the living and dead. His kingdom will have no end.And in the Holy Spirit, the Lord, the Giver of life, who proceeds from the Father, who together with the Father and the Son is worshiped and glorified, who spoke through the prophets.In One, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic Church. I acknowledge one baptism for the forgiveness of sins.I expect the resurrection of the dead.And the life of the ages to come. Amen.\par
\par
\b ECLECTIC WICCA: \b0 Wicca traditions that combine elements from several different traditions to form their own unique system of reverence and/or magick. Many solitary practitioners are considered to be Eclectic.\par
\par
\b EGYPTIAN MAGICK: \b0 The Egyptians used magic for both practical and religious purposes.  They believed magic was a divine creation for the benefit of humanity.  It was considered a field of knowledge just like architecture, literature, medicine, etc.  It was just another category of knowledge to be used in coping with their environment and religion.\par
In our modern society, the word magic does not convey the force it did in the ancient Egyptian culture.  To the Egyptians, magic was a real and potent force.  It was a tangible means of communicating,  manipulating, and controlling their gods.  For example, their life depended on agriculture and thus the weather.  Using magic to control the weather was important for their survival.  Also, as we will be exploring, magic was essential after death for safe passage through the afterlife.\par
\par
\b ENOCHIAN MAGICK: \b0 A system of magick that teaches communication with angels and spirits and travel through various planes, or aethyrs of consciousness. Enochian magick apparently originated with John Dee and Edward Kelly in the 16th century and communication with spirits involved the Nineteen Calls (or Keys): incantations in the Enochian language, a complex language of unknown origin. Enochian magick was revived by the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn and studied at length by Aleister Crowley.\par
\par
\b FAERY FAITH: \b0 A pagan religion based on animism, the belief that everything in this and the Otherworlds is alive and the faery folklore.\par
\par
\b FAERY WICCA: \b0 A Wiccan Tradition incorporating the deities of the Welsh or Irish Faery Folk and drawing some theology from the Faery Faith.\par
\par
\b FAMILY TRADITION WITCHCRAFT: \b0 A Tradition passed down within the family in an unbroken line and hence by hereditary descent. Many Family Tradition Witches do not consider their traditions Wiccan; some use the term Wicca to describe their family traditions because the beliefs and practices fit more or less closely with Gardnerian or Alexandrian Wicca. Also known as Hereditary Witchcraft.\par
\par
\b FREEMASONRY: \b0 Is one of the largest and oldest fraternal organisations in the world. Masonic organisations are secretive Solar worship cults. It has been defined as a system of morality veiled in allegory and illustrated by symbol.\par
\par
\b GARDNERIAN WICCA: \b0 A Wiccan tradition founded by Gerald Gardner, and the first denomination of Wicca to make itself known publicly. The Gardnerian tradition places emphasis on the Goddess over the God, has a degree system of advancement and does not allow for self-initiation. Covens work skyclad and aim to equal numbers of male and female, paired.\par
\par
\b GNOSTICISM: \b0 From the Greek gnosis (knowledge). A diversity of pre-Christian and early-Christian beliefs. A central tenet is the corruption of the physical world, and the ability of some to transcend it through acquisition of esoteric spiritual knowledge.\par
\par
\b GNOSTIC THEOLALITES: \b0 The Church of St Mary & St John was founded in March 2011 by Tau Tia L Douglass. The aim is to bring the esoteric teachings out and into the mainstream. The Church was formed with valid lines of apostolic succession. On the surface it might have an exoteric look and feel, but if one was to attend a Celtic Gnostic Mass one would soon realise this is unlike any exoteric religion. The Mass is performed by both a Priest and a Priestess, the main altar divided - one half is venerating the Lord, the other the Lady... anyone with esoteric knowledge who is part of the Mass will know the true meaning. Tau Tia is the first female in apostolic succession to charter a Church and Templar Order, The Church of St Mary & St John is Herstory in the making and hopes to bring balance, equality and harmony to a currently unbalanced world. Those who are part of the Church are known as Gnostic Theolalites, as they strive for perfection through the Great Work and aim to ignite their own inner Divine light. The Minor Orders are a gradual comparison of many religions and traditions, and the Major Orders are fully esoteric. Aspirants who are ordained to the Priesthood are awarded a Diploma in Esoteric Comparative Theology by the Churches own seminary. The seminary training is also available to those outside the Church.\par
\par
\b HECATINE TRADITION: \b0 A Scottish tradition of Witchcraft that preserves the unique festivals of the Caledonii. Also known as Caledonii Tradition.\par
\par
\b HECHICERIA: \b0 A Mexican Indian magickal tradition that reveres the pre-Columbian divinities. Practitioners are most often male and are called Hechiceros, Nuguals, or Bruho Naturaleza.\par
\par
\b HEDGE WITCHCRAFT: \b0 A non-initiated solitary practice of Witchcraft that focuses on the traditional European, especially British Isles, role of Witch as healer, midwife and seer for a community. Highly intuitive, Hedge Witchcraft emphasizes the practical role of magick in daily living over the religious doctrine and it is acceptable for Hedge Witches to be self taught and eclectic in the spiritual aspects of their faith.\par
\par
\b HELLENISMOS: \b0 Hellenismos is the traditional, polytheistic religion of ancient Greece, reconstructed in and adapted to the modern world. It is also called Hellenic Polytheism, Hellenic Reconstructionist Paganism, or simply Hellenism. Those who practice this religion are variously known as Hellenic polytheists, Hellenic pagans, Hellenic reconstructionists, Hellenists, or Hellenes.\par
Hellenic polytheists worship the ancient Greek gods\f1\emdash\f0 the Olympians, nature divinities, underworld deities\f1\emdash\f0 and heroes. We honor our ancestors, both physical and spiritual. Ours is primarily a devotional or votive religion, based on the exchange of gifts (offerings) for the gods' blessings. Hellenismos has a highly developed ethical system based on the principles of reciprocity, hospitality, and moderation.\par
\par
\b HIGH MAGICK: \b0 Magick that calls upon the aid of beneficent spirits and is akin to religion. It is called theurgy, from theourgia "working things pertaining to the gods". High Magick is based upon a blend of doctrines of Plato and other Greek philosophers, Oriental mysticism, Judaism and Christianity and currently is divided into three forms : Enochian, Thelemic and Eclectic. High Magick requires a rigorous discipline and has an intellectual appeal, the mage derives power from God (the Judeo-Christian God) through the successful control of spirits, usually demons, which are believed easier to control than angels. Demons may be good, evil, or neutral. In its highest sense, High Magick is a transcendental experience that takes the mage into mystical realms and into communication with the Higher Self. Also known as Ceremonial Magick, Ritual Magick, Theurgic Magick, Theurgy.\par
\par
\b HINDUISM: \b0 The world\f1\rquote\f0 s oldest organised religion, existing for 4500 years. Based on the ancient Vedic literature, it is a belief system in constant transition. Populated by an almost infinite number of gods, the faith is open to adopting any or all of the gods created by younger religions. Reincarnation, and being held accountable for one\f1\rquote\f0 s deeds (karma), are fundamental components of Hinduism. It is the third largest category of religions.\par
\par
\b HOODOO: \b0 An American magickal system drawn from African magickal practice, Native American botanical healing knowledge and European folklore. It is often confused with Voodoo and it's practitioners are called Hoodoo, Hoodoo Doctors, Hoodoo Men/Women, Conjure Men/Women Conjurers, Root Doctors or Root Workers. Also known as Rootwork.\par
\par
\b HUNA: \b0 The ancient Polynesian philosophical, scientific and magickal system. Huna teaches that there are three selves: lower, middle and higher that may be integrated by directing Mana properly. Practitioners are called Kahuna.\par
\par
\b ISLAM: \b0 The monotheistic religious doctrine as revealed by the Muhammad, the Prophet of Allah. There are many sects of Islam and believers are called Muslims.\par
\par
\b JAINISM: \b0 An Indian religion that prescribes pacifism and a path of non-violence towards all living beings. Its philosophy and practice emphasize the necessity of self-effort to move the soul towards divine consciousness and liberation. Any soul that has conquered its own inner enemies and achieved the state of supreme being is called Jina (Conqueror or Victor). Jainism is also referred to as Shraman (self-reliant) Dharma or the religion of Nirgantha (who does not have attachments and aversions) by ancient texts. Jainism is commonly referred to as Jain Dharma in Hindi and Samanam in Tamil.\par
\par
\b JAMAICAN VOODOO: \b0 The polytheistic religion and magickal system of West African origin found in the Caribbean, South America and North America today. It recognizes that there are a multitude of gods and ghosts who each have their own myths, rites, offerings, taboos, and magical forces. Obeah is a healer god, who can also be invoked to bring illness and other calamities to one's own enemy. Also known as Obea, Obeah, Obi, Oby, Jamaican Voodoo.\par
\par
\b JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES: \b0 They believe God is about to end the present system of life in the world, with its crime, violence, sickness and death, and replace it with his Kingdom which will bring about peace for all humans who live by Bible standards. Most of the religion's beliefs are based on the teachings of Charles Taze Russell, a preacher who started a Bible study group in Pennsylvania, USA in 1876, and later started publishing a religious magazine called The Watchtower. Many of those beliefs, especially about who God is and what his plans are for humans and the earth, are different to what is taught in mainstream Christian churches. Jehovah's Witnesses believe that only 144,000 people will go to heaven and that the remaining people who obey God will live forever on a paradise Earth. They do not believe that God is a Trinity, and teach that when people die, they remain in their grave until Jesus Christ resurrects them after God's Kingdom, or government, is ruling over earth. Witnesses are best known for preaching their beliefs from door-to-door and in other public places, and offering their magazines, The Watchtower and Awake! They are also well known for refusing to join armies and refusing blood transfusions.\par
\par
\b JUDAISM: \b0 The religion, and culture, of the Jews. Based on the ancient Hebrew beliefs and writings (referred to as the Old Testament by other religions), current doctrine is that if every member of the faith strives to live within God\f1\rquote\f0 s law, he (God) will fulfill his promise (covenant), and send a messiah to restore the Jews to their rightful place as the ruling class. There are many divisions within the religion, but it is overall, a fluid belief system which evolves with time. The most interesting aspect of this flexibility, is the interpretation of the holy laws in ways which \f1\ldblquote\f0 outsmart\f1\rdblquote\f0  God: allowing for less strict adherence to rules which interfere with contemporary materialism.\par
\b\par
JUNGIAN: \b0 Relating to the theories on human behaviour put forward by the Swiss psychiatrist, Carl Jung. He perceived a duality in many aspects of the human mind. His most significant theory was that of a collective unconscious, which contains all of the \f1\ldblquote\f0 racial memories\f1\rdblquote\f0  each person is born with. Because some myths, such as a \f1\ldblquote\f0 great flood\f1\rdblquote\f0 , seem to appear in all cultures, he determined that some past memories become part of our genetic code, as archetypes (symbolic representations of memories).\par
\par
\b KABBALAH: \b0 Is a discipline and school of thought concerned with the mystical aspect of Judaism. It is a set of esoteric teachings meant to explain the relationship between an eternal/mysterious Creator and the mortal/finite universe.\par
\par
\b KEMETIC: \b0 Ma'at is the fundamental or foundational principle of Ancient Kemetic life and existence. It is the fundamental or foundational principle of the divine, natural, social and moral order. It was established by the Almighty at the time of Creation and is manifest in nature as the normalcy of phenomena. In society, Ma'at is known as "justice." In our cognitive and intellectual existence, Ma'at is known as "truth." In our moral and spiritual existence, Ma'at is known as "righteousness." In our environmental and cosmological existence, Ma'at is known as harmony. In our inter- and intra-personal existence, Ma'at is known as balance.\par
\par
\b KITCHEN WITCHCRAFT: \b0 A tradition of Witchcraft with an emphasis on the practical side of religion, magick, the Earth, and elements. Much of the tradition is very similar to Stregheria (Strega) and practitioners work out of hearth and home, using only what they would have on hand for daily routines to perform rituals and spells. The home is sacred to a Kitchen Witch and cooking and herb magick play a fundamental part in their practice. Kitchen Witchery is a way of including Witchcraft beliefs into everyday life.\par
\par
\b LEFT-HAND PATH: \b0 A term used to identify Goddess worship or the hidden (occult) esoteric church. Where as the Right-hand path is God worship and exoteric.\par
\par
\b LIBERAL CATHOLIC: \b0 A form of Christianity open to theosophical ideas and even reincarnation. It is not connected to the Roman Catholic Church. The title also is applied to various separate and independent denominations throughout the world holding many theosophical ideas in common.\par
\par
\b LOW MAGICK: \b0 Magick practiced by people who are not trained in High Magick and does not involve the ritualized summoning of spirits. Spells, incantations and concocted philters and potions are the lowest forms of Low Magick.\par
\par
\b LUTHERANISM: \b0 Lutherans believe the Bible is the first and best source for Christian faith and teaching. Like other Christians, they believe in the Trinity, that Jesus Christ was both God and man, that all humans are sinful since Adam and Eve (Original sin), and that humans are saved by Jesus' death on the cross. Lutherans believe that the central idea to all of their beliefs is that we are saved by grace through faith because of Jesus Christ\par
\par
\b MARTINISM: \b0 A form of mystical and esoteric Christianity concerned with the fall of the first man, his state of material privation from his divine source, and the process of his return, called 'Reintegration' or illumination.  As a mystical tradition, it was first transmitted through a masonic high-degree system established around 1740 in France by Martinez de Pasqually, and later propagated in different forms by his two students Louis Claude de Saint-Martin and Jean-Baptiste Willermoz.\par
\par
\b METHODIST: \b0 A group of Protestant denominations. The movement started in Britain in the 18th century and spread to the United States and the British Empire. Originally it was popular with workers, poor farmers, and slaves. The founder of Methodism was Mr John Wesley who was a former priest of the Church of England.\par
\par
\b MITHRAISM: \b0 Solar worship. An astrology-centric, middle-platonic mystery cult of the 1st-4th century Roman Empire that claimed to have been founded by "Zoroaster".\par
\par
\b MONTANISM: \b0 Montanism was particularly influenced by Johannine literature, especially the Gospel of John and the Apocalypse of John. In John's Gospel, Jesus promised to send the Paraclete or Holy Spirit, from which Montanists believed their prophets derived inspiration. In the Apocalypse, John was taken by an angel to the top of a mountain where he sees the New Jerusalem descend to earth. Montanus identified this mountain as being located in Phrygia near Pepuza. Followers of the New Prophecy called themselves spiritales ("spiritual people") in contrast to their opponents whom they termed psychici ("carnal, natural people").\par
\par
\b MORMONISM: \b0 Today the center of the Church is in Utah, but there are more than 13 million Mormons living all over the world. The leader of the Church is called the president, and Mormons call him a prophet. They believe that God guides the prophet, just like He guided Joseph Smith and the prophets in the Bible. Mormons believe that it is important for families to spend a lot of time together, and that after they die, they can live together forever. Mormons do not drink alcohol, coffee, tea, or smoke tobacco. They meet once a week on Sunday for church, where they have the sacrament and listen to short talks or sermons. They also have Sunday School to learn more. The Church also has activities during the week. Mormons also have buildings called temples. These are the most holy buildings in their religion. After a temple has been dedicated, only Mormons that are living good lives can go in the temple.\par
\par
\b NECROMANCY: \b0 A form of magic in which the practitioner seeks to summon the spirit of a deceased person, either as an apparition or ghost, or to raise them bodily, for the purpose of divination.\par
\par
\b NORDIC TRADITION, NORSE PAGANISM: \b0 Pagan traditions that worship the Norse pantheon of deities and stresses conservative values of honor, honesty, courage and duty to one\f1\rquote\f0 s family, kin and friends. In the 1970\f1\rquote\f0 s a number of Norse Pagan groups sprang into existence almost simultaneously and independently of one another, in America, England an Iceland. Many adherents to Norse Paganism are attracted by the emphasis on blood ties and genetics, the warrior ethic and the Norse symbology. Norse Pagans recognize both branches of the Norse pantheon, the Aesir and the Vanir. A branch called Odinism worship only the Aesir. Festivals centre on the seasonal equinoxes and solstices, and Norse holidays such as Ragnar\f1\rquote\f0 s Day. Heavier emphasis is placed on skill mastery and shamanism than on magick and meditation. There are a few extreme right-wing Norse Pagan groups who believe they have founded a religion upon the Aryan race; and while some do include neo-Nazis, most Norse Pagans consider these people a fringe element not connected to their religion. Also known as Teutonic Tradition. See also: Odinism.\par
\par
\b PENTECOSTALISM: \b0 Pentecostals emphasize the teaching of the "full gospel" or "foursquare gospel". The term foursquare refers to the four fundamental beliefs of Pentecostalism: Jesus saves according to John 3:16, baptizes with the Holy Spirit according to Acts 2:4, heals bodily according to James 5:15, and is coming again to receive those who are saved according to 1 Thessalonians 4:16\f1\endash\f0 17. It is evangelical, emphasizing the reliability of the Bible and the need for the transformation of an individual's life through faith in Jesus.\par
\par
\b PRESBYTERIANISM: \b0 A kind of Protestant Christianity. It was started off in Scotland by John Knox. Today there are Presbyterian churches across the world. Presbyterians (followers of Presbyterianism) believe that the Bible is the most important thing in their church and that no one can change the meaning of it. They believe that God has control over everything and that only followers of Jesus Christ may get into heaven.\par
Presbyterian churches may be led by men called Ministers, Rectors or Elders. Some Presbyterian churches have women as elders.\par
\par
\b ODINISM: \b0 A form of Norse Paganism that recognizes only the Aesir, the Sky Gods, including Odin, Frigga, Thor, Loki, Balder and others. Odinism does not acknowledge the Vanir, the Gods concerned with earth, agriculture, fertility and the cycle of death and rebirth.\par
\par
\b OLD RELIGION (The): \b0 Italian Witchcraft, founded in the mid-14th century with the teachings of Aradia, the Holy Strega, and based upon the pre-Estruscian Italian belief system. The Old Religion is a worship of the "Source of All Things", through the personification of the Goddess and God. Also known as Strega, Stregheria, and La Vecchia Religione.\par
\par
\b PECTI-WITA, PICTISH WITCHCRAFT: \b0 The study and practice of the religion of the Picts, the pre-Celtic inhabitants of northern Scotland. Pecti-Wita is concerned with all aspects of prosperity, growth, abundance, creativity, and healing, and honors the Celtic Deities. The main tools in Pecti-Wita are the Staff and the Athame or Dirk. Pecti-Witans use a "Keek-Stane" which is, in effect, a scrying stone or the equivalent of a crystal ball. Also known as Pictish Witchcraft, Wita.\par
\par
\b PROTESTANT: \b0 One of the major groupings within Christianity, and has been defined as "any Western Christian who is not an adherent of a Catholic, Anglican, or Eastern Church." It is a movement that began in Germany in the early 16th century as a reaction against medieval Roman Catholic doctrines and practices, especially in regards to salvation, justification, and ecclesiology. The doctrines of the various Protestant denominations vary, but most include justification by grace through faith alone, known as Sola Gratia and Sola Fide respectively, the priesthood of all believers, and the Bible as the supreme authority in matters of faith and morals, known as Sola Scriptura, which is Latin for "by scripture alone".\par
\par
\b ROMAN CATHOLIC: \b0 The Roman Catholic Church is led by the pope, who lives in the Vatican City. According to Catholics, the pope is infallible in religious matters. This means that his official statements ('ex cathedra') are true and must be obeyed.\par
\par
\b SACRED WHEEL WICCA: \b0 An eclectic neo-Pagan path based on Celtic beliefs, that focuses on balance and learning. Celtic beliefs are a part of their teachings. They state that they are a Wiccan religion dedicated to the health of Mother Earth, and to all her children in whatever forms they may take.\par
\par
\b SANTER\'cdA (Spanish, Santo: "saint"): \b0 A religion centering on the worship of the ancient African Gods and Goddess's known as Orishas. Similar in practice to Voudon, all worshippers of Santer\'eda could be called Santeros but the term Santeros usually refers to the priests or priestesses. In some temples the highest order of priest is known as a babalawo, who has the power to heal the sick, punish the unjust and to divine the future through the Table of If\'e1. Babalawo's follow the Orisha known as Orula.\par
\par
\b SATANISM: \b0 The worship of the Christian concept of the Anti-Christ. It is not a Pagan religion although some Satanists refer to themselves as witches or Witches.\par
\par
\b SEAX WICCA: \b0 A tradition, or denomination, of the neopagan religion of Wicca which is largely inspired by the iconography of the historical Anglo-Saxon paganism, though, unlike Theodism, it is not a reconstruction of the early mediaeval religion itself. The tradition was founded in 1973 by Raymond Buckland, an English-born High Priest of Gardnerian Wicca who moved to the United States in the 1970s.\par
\par
\b SHAMANISM: \b0 The oldest system of healing and magick in the world, probably as old as mankind itself. Shamanism is the art of functioning comfortably in two realities; the ordinary reality of the everyday, waking world, and the non-ordinary reality of the shamanic state of consciousness attained through an ecstatic trance. The primary purpose of shamanism is the healing of body and mind, but it is also used for divination and to ensure prosperity for communities. Shamanism is found in some form in every culture in the world.\par
\par
\b SHINTOISM: \b0 An ancient Japanese religion which was brought to Japan when the present inhabitants eliminated the indigenous population of the islands. A complex, yet also vague, religion which includes ancestor worship, animism, and numerous gods and goddesses. Depending on interpretation, it is both polytheistic and monotheistic: \ldblquote Kami\rdblquote , which Westerners can loosely parallel with the concept of god, applies holiness to all things, and to certain things. There are degrees of Kami, and guidelines as to what is termed Kami: but ultimately, everything is included as such. It appears to be a system used to impose a structured form of social obligation upon society, and is incomprehensible, even to its adherents.\par
\par
\b SUFISM: \b0 or Ta\u7779?awwuf  is defined by its adherents as the inner, mystical dimension of Islam. A practitioner of this tradition is generally known as a \u7779?\f2\u363?\f0 f\f2\u299?\f0 . Another name for a Sufi is Dervish.\par
 Classical Sufi scholars have defined Sufism as "a science whose objective is the reparation of the heart and turning it away from all else but God." Alternatively, in the words of the Darqawi Sufi teacher Ahmad ibn Ajiba, "a science through which one can know how to travel into the presence of the Divine, purify one\f2\rquote\f0 s inner self from filth, and beautify it with a variety of praiseworthy traits."\par
\par
\b TAOISM: \b0 The most ancient system of knowledge recorded on earth--preceding even the traditions of Mesopotamia, Ancient Egypt, India, Greece, and so forth.  The Ancient Taoists developed a complete, detailed, and scientific system of knowledge which comprises many principles of food preparation, exercise, healing, sexology, etc.\par
\b\par
THELEMIC MAGICK: \b0 A form of Ceremonial Magick developed by Aleister Crowley. Ceremonial Magick is Magick that calls upon the aid of beneficent spirits and is based upon a blend of doctrines of Plato and other Greek philosophers, Oriental mysticism, Judaism and Christianity.\par
\par
\b THEOLA: \b0 A new magickal and spiritual current that was first founded in 2009 by Ordo Infinitus Orbis - Knights Hospitaller Templars. A balanced path which uses the energies of both the Sun and Moon, Male and Female, working to bring harmony and balance to ourselves, then we can in turn bring balance and harmony to the world. Those working in the Theola current usually call themselves Theolalites. The current of OIO is 333.\par
\par
\b THEURGIC MAGICK, THEURGY: \b0 Magick that calls upon the aid of beneficent spirits and is akin to religion. Theurgic Magick is based upon a blend of doctrines of Plato and other Greek philosophers, Oriental mysticism, Judaism and Christianity and currently is divided into three forms : Enochian, Thelemic and Eclectic. Enochian Magick originated with John Dee and Edward Kelly in the 16th century and communication with spirits involved the Nineteen Calls (or Keys): incantations in the Enchonian language, a complex language of unknown origin. This system of Magick was revived by the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn and studied at length by Aleister Crowley. In turn, Crowley developed the Thelemic Magick system from his studies and Ceremonial Magickians have since expanded to develop Eclectic Magick systems based on a variety of different systems, inclusive of Alchemy, Egyptology, Kabbalistic doctrines, Chaos Magick etc. Theurgic Magick requires a rigorous discipline and has an intellectual appeal, the mage derives power from God (the Judeo-Christian God) through the successful control of spirits, usually demons, which are believed easier to control than angels. Demons may be good, evil, or neutral. In its highest sense, Theurgic Magick is a transcendental experience that takes the mage into mystical realms and into communication with the Higher Self. Also known as Ceremonial Magick, High Magick, Ritual Magick.\par
\par
\b UNITARIAN UNIVERSALIST: \b0 Unitarian Universalism was formed from the merger in 1961 of two historically Christian denominations, the Universalist Church of America and the American Unitarian Association, both based in the United States. At the time of the North American merger, the theological significance of these terms had expanded beyond the traditional Christian understanding. Unitarian Universalists today draw from a variety of religious traditions. Individuals may or may not self-identify as Christians or subscribe to Christian beliefs.\par
\par
\b UMBANDA: \b0 A religion centering on the worship of the ancient African Gods who have been assimilated as Catholic saints. Similar in practice to Voudon, all worshippers of Santer\'eda could be called Santeros but the term Santeros usually refers to the priests or priestesses. The highest order of priest is a babalawo, who has the power to heal the sick, punish the unjust and to divine the future through the Table of If\'e1. Also known as Santer\'eda.\par
\par
\b VAMPYRE MAGICK: \b0 Uses energy forces comes with vampyre magick, pranic energy particularly that which is taken in from others during feeding. Also a different focus when working with the astral and psi energy.\par
\par
\b VECCHIA RELIGIONE (La): \b0 Italian Witchcraft, founded in the mid -14th century with the teachings of Aradia, the Holy Strega, and based upon the pre-Etruscan Italian belief system. La Vecchia Religione is a worship of the "Source of All Things", through the personification of the Goddess and God. Also known as The Old Religion, Strega and Stregheria.\par
\par
\b VODOUN, VOODOO, VOUDOU, VOUDOUN (Fon, vodu: "spirit"): \b0 Like Santer\'eda, Vodoun is a blending the worship of traditional Catholic saints, Christ and the Gods (loas) of Africa, for example, a Vodoun practitioner could beg for intercession from St. Patrick and really be calling on their serpent God, Danbhalah-Wedo. Vodoun worshippers believe that the work of the loas appears in every facet of daily life and that pleasing the loas will gain the faithful health, wealth, and spiritual contentment. The loas speak to their devotees through spirit possession but only for a short time during ceremonies and manifest to protect, punish, confer skills and talents, prophesy, cure illness, exorcise spirits, give counsel, assist in rituals and take sacrificial offerings. The priest (houngan) or priestess (mambo) acts as an intermediary to summon the loa and help the loa to depart when his or her business is finished. Magick, for both good and evil, is an integral part of Vodoun. Also known as Voudou, Voudoun.\par
\par
\b WELSH CYMRI WICCA: \b0 A Wiccan Tradition based on Y Tylwyth Teg, a Welsh-based tradition named for the faery folk of that land, which maintains deeply Celtic roots and very humanistic philosophy. Students of both these paths are asked to place heavy emphasis on the study of Welsh myth, folklore, and faery lore.\par
\par
\b WHITE MAGICK: \b0 A term used to identify some traditions where Magick is never used for destructive purposes. Also known as the Right Hand Path, Path of Light.\par
\par
\b WICCA (Old English wicca: "male witch"; wicce,: "female witch"; wiccan: "witchcraft"): \b0 Any religion that follows the beliefs, traditions, and ceremonies laid out by Gerald Gardner (Gardnerian Wicca) or Alex Sanders (Alexandrian Wicca) that have been passed down through Initiation and Consecration, including those religions founded by Initiated and Consecrated members of another form; Any religion that has no initiatory connection to Gardner or Sanders, but have based their rituals and practices upon Gardnerian Wicca or Alexandrian Wicca., including solitary Wicca practitioners.\par
\par
\b WICCAN SHAMANISM: \b0 An eclectic pagan tradition created by Selena Fox, high priestess of Circle Sanctuary, that blends Wiccan practice, humanistic psychology and a variety of shamanistic practices from tribal societies around the world. Healing is the primary focus of a Wiccan Shaman, and practitioners observe all the Sabbats, traditional activities, and the Wiccan Rede in conjunction with shamanic practices such as vision questing and dreamtime.\par
\par
\b WITA: \b0 The study and practice of the religion of the Picts, the pre-Celtic inhabitants of\par
northern Scotland. Pecti-Wita is concerned with all aspects of prosperity, growth, abundance, creativity, and healing, and honours the Celtic Dieties. The main tools in Pecti-Wita are the Staff and the Athame or Dirk. Pecti-Witans use a "Keek-Stane" which is, in effect, a scrying stone or the equivalent of a crystal ball. Also known as Pecti-Wita, Pictish Witchcraft. An eclectic Irish path which keeps very old Irish traditions and combines them with the influences of the Norse. Witta values Irish Pagan history and recognizes that at each stage in its development, over many centuries, each generation has been able to add something of value. Until recent times Wittan covens were characterized by strict stratification and one-on-one teaching for its apprentices. Today most Wittan covens operate on a consensus basis and will accept self-initiation and the solitary life as valid. It is very similar to the Scottish Pecti-Wita which is evolved from Pictish, rather than Irish, tradition. Also known as Witta.\par
\par
\b ZEN BUDDHISM (Japanese, zen: "meditation"): \b0 Japanese Buddhism which is differentiated from other Buddhist sects by its strong emphasis on the concept that all things are one.\par
\par
\b ZOROASTRIANISM: \b0 The religion of the Persians before their conversion to Islam. According to tradition, it was founded by Zoroaster in the 6th or 7th century BCE. Its principles, contained in the Zend-Avesta, include belief in an afterlife and the continuous struggle of the universal spirit of good, Ormazd, with the universal spirit of evil, Ahriman.\par

\pard\sl276\slmult1\par
\b Site links:\par
{\b0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.templeoftheola.org/magick-paths--traditions.html }}{\fldrslt{http://www.templeoftheola.org/magick-paths--traditions.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\b0\f0\fs24\line {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.angelfire.com/magic/the_sacred_shadows/paths.htm }}{\fldrslt{http://www.angelfire.com/magic/the_sacred_shadows/paths.htm\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par
{{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.witchpathforward.com/different-craft-paths.html }}{\fldrslt{http://www.witchpathforward.com/different-craft-paths.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs24\par
}
 