{\rtf1\fbidis\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\ltrpar\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\b\f0\fs22\lang9 PLANES OF EXISTANCE\ulnone\b0\par
\b Astral - \b0 is a mental plane, where there's basiclly no laws of physics and anything little thing, tiny idea, small whim can manifest there in seconds. \b\par
Etheric\b0  - is a denser plane less dense then the physical where laws of physics are more relaxed, many spirits exists here and live good lives. \par
\b Bio lovative \b0 - Bio Locative is a plane slightly less dense then the physical that coinsides directly with the physical realm. Many enter the Bio locative plane when Projectiong to somewhere in the Physical. \par
\b\tab Difference - \b0 if you created something in the Astral and try to take it to the Etheric or Bio locative it will go \i poof\i0  but if you created something in the Etheric and took it to the astral it would remain and be able to travel between the two planes; how ever will go \i poof\i0  if attempted to be brought to the bio-locative, while anying created in the bio-locative will be able to be taken into each of the planes of existance.\b\par
\par
\ul TYPES OF PROJECTION:\par
\ulnone Projection -\b0  \f1 Another word for a out-of-body experience. Projection is when someone has an out-of-body experience and sends their consciousness partially or fully to another plane. \ul\b\f0\par
\ulnone Astral Projection \b0 - This is when someone projects to the astral/mental plane\b\par
Etheric Projection \b0 - This is when someone projects to the etheric plane\b\par
Biolocation (BioL) \b0 - This is when someone projects somewhere in the physical/bio-locative plane\b\par
Dream walking \b0 - This is a sub type of projection to the mental plane where someone projects into anothers dreams; if the projector is skilled enough they can be able to influance and change the persons dream.\par
\b Partical Projection - \b0 A state where conciousness is split between one or more projections.\par
\b Full Projection - \b0 Entering a trance like state where your full conciousness is in control of your projection.\b\par
\b0\par
\ul\b ENERGY WORK:\par
\ulnone Affinities \b0 - Elemental energies that in most cases stem from primordial deities, through their creation choices they have either gave their affinity to their races or had help from other primordials to give their affinities to. Affinities of each come in different "trains, for example there are multiple forms of light, dark, etc. Affinities while they each have different properties they all share the flexability of being manipulated based on programming.\par
\b Energy Manipulation (EM) \b0 - The term used for the act of practicing control and use of energy.\b\par
Energy System (ES) \b0 - An Energy System essentially is the energy body that resides inside a person. A ES consists of Nadis (energy pathways) and Chakras. \par
\b Chakras \b0 - Chakras are energy points where multiple Nadis/energy pathways overlap and create energy centers; aka node, chakras, orbs, etc.  In the body; referring to a humans right now; normally there are 7 basic/major chakras, however when looking at a soul that isn\f1\rquote\f0 t human there is a chance they may have more or less than the 7 basic/major chakras, or that they may be in a different lay out compared to the traditional one found online.\b\par
Energy Signature \b0 - Everyone has an energy signature unique to them; it will feel different based on kin, affinitiy, personal abilities, even current health. Your energy signature may change over time as you do how ever the base energy will remain the same through out your souls life time.\b\par
Grounding -\b0  Simply the process of anchoring your being and your energetic body to the Earth to create a two way channel in which energy can be sent and recieved.\par
\b Cleansing -\b0  Simply cleaning your energy system of any negative energies or stagnation.\b\par
Aura \b0 - An energy field radiating from your head and body; often made by energy radiating out from your energy system or energetic body. The aura can also contain any part of the non-physical you; your emotions, thoughts, and spirit.\b\par
Pocket/Personal Realm (PR) \b0 - PRs are etheric, its often a small space people can live thier lifes in; tho many deities have thier own PRs as well and many races theyve made live in them under thier creators. They can be sealed off and made into "safe zones".\par
\b Meditation -\b0  A form of relaxation that effortlessly allows your mind to become calm and peaceful\par
\b Flare/Flaring \b0 - Exerting the energy within your energy system outward through your aura. It should naturally be visable but flareing energy is common as a form of intimidation as it can show someone how strong your energy actually is. Or in some cases linked to spiritual awakening it can flare on its own etc. However it doesnt manifest like it does ethericlly so it wont be able to be seen physically.\par
\b\f1 Frontloading\b0\f0\lang5129  -W\f1\lang9 here a person gives information which alters a scanner\rquote s perception. For example, if a person is scanning your energy system and they are told "can you scan my energy system, I think there's a lot damage" and in most cases will see that as something there even if it's not true or possibly exaggerated.\par
\b\f0\lang5129 Remote Viewing - \b0 A minor form of projection where you link your minds eye and see/sense a person/object/place/etc. This is often a good method to use when practcing scanning.\f1\lang9\par
\par
\ul\b\f0\lang5129 MAGIC:\par
\ulnone\f1\lang9 Evocation\f0\lang5129  -\b0\f1\lang9  \f0\lang5129 T\f1\lang9 he act of calling upon or summoning a spirit, demon, deity or other supernatural agent to you for knowledge and or assistance.\par
\b Invocation\f0\lang5129  \b0 - T\f1\lang9 he act of calling upon or summoning a entity into your being through the form of controlled possession or something similiar to possession for knowledge or assistance,  through this ritual one can communicate with the invocated being through telepathy.\par
\f0\par
\par
\ul\b CREATIONS:\par
\ulnone Constructs \b0 - An object built in the from energy. This can be done in the Biolocative physical plane, the Astral Plane, and the Etheric Plane. Construct is build from energy, powered, and programmed for a function. Constructs can be really easy or really complex.\b\par
Psi-Ball\b0  - It is the most basic construct around and is created by molding energy into the shape of a sphere or ball shape with your mind and hands. Later once you have mastered making psi-balls you can develop them into more advanced constructs. \b\par
Golems - \b0 A\f1\lang1037 n animated anthropomorphic being that is magically created entirely from inanimate matter (\f0\lang5129 commonly clay, mud or wood; but not limited to these three). Golems are often seen as more durable versions of a Servitors.\b\lang9\par
Servitors -\b0  An energetic construct that has been programmed for a particular purpose. It is still essentially a part of the energy worker, but the focus is less on the subconscious and more on energy. \par
\b Tulpa\b0  - A Tulpa is the concept of a being or object which is created through spiritual or mental powers. Modern practitioners use the term to refer to a type of willed imaginary friend which practitioners consider to be sentient and relatively autonomous.\par
\b Thought forms\b0 :\par
\b Servitor thoughtforms \b0 -The first stage, they can be created by one individual or more and take minimal energy work to create them. They have no free will and only do what they are programmed/ordered to do by their creator(s) they require to feed every now and then or they will fade away or decompose to ambient energy.\b\par
Servitor Egregores \b0 -Created by an individual or group but if done by an individual it will take some time to develop, whereas if created by a group it will develop at a much faster rate. Egregores can do more than a servitor and at this point they can learn things their creators tell them to learn, after a while they gain some form of freedom and go off to learn what they choose to.\par
\b Servitors Godforms -\b0  Egregores that after learning they realize they do not have to follow their creator anymore and do not require their creator(s) to supply them with energy anymore. Overtime the godform will find means of gaining power and worship, some through fear, some through love, etc.\par
\b\tab Examples of Godforms created: \b0\par
\tab\b Fotomencus: \b0 created by chaotes to be an astral version of Cronos, he was used to help alter perception of time and overtime gained so much power and a common occurance that has been found is this godform in particular wants to replace cronos and be him as the God of time.\par
 \tab\b Ellis: \b0 A godform created by chaotes that was used to link locations and store knowledge, overtime people used her for reason other than such so she took on malicious traits as well as benevolant traits. After a while she started demanding respect from those who invoke her or evoke her and if not given it will usually result in her taking on a more malicious persona.\par
\b\tab Can strong thoughtforms enter other realms beside the astral?\b0\par
No, but they can affect the physical/the mind. The astral and the mind is so closely linked that a thoughtform is strong enough can cause itself to manifest on the physical in the sense of seeing it energetically; Or it can manipulate energy in a way it can manifest things on the physical like if a thoughtform is pissed at you and you enter the astral it can harm you or it can dream walk you and harm you from that means\par
The way thoughtforms can gain followers is by means of them projecting to the astral or through their dreams to basically give the typical "I choose you as someone important follow me" type deal. Sure a real deity can do the same but deities often times choose people to teach them not for them to follow them they leave that entirely up to the individual\par
\par
\ul\b CORES:\par
\ulnone Core \b0 - A crystaline orb located in the persons centre; this indicates the person is not human and will hold all the data of the persons affinities and kin identiy\b\par
Copy/psudeo core \b0 - A fake version of a core that is less stable and durable which will break down over time and if implanted into someone when it breaks it may have highly negative effects\par
\b Human core\b0  - Humans do not have a crystialine core rather it is a core located around one of their chakras (most common chakras to find a humans core would be the root or heart chakras)\par
\par
\ul\b SCANNING:\par
\ulnone General scans \b0 - A general scan is mostly what ever the scanner is capable of sensesing; it is a common scan for beginners and may not contain much detail.\b\par
Object scans\b0  - A scan of a linked object\b\par
Energy System scans \b0 - This type of scan can be broken down into three types:\line\tab\b Chakra scans \b0 - Scanning pinpointed on each individual or multiple chakras\b\par
\tab Aura Scans \b0 - Scanning the whole aura of a person noting what features it has\b\par
\tab Full Energy System scans \b0 - Scanning a persons energy system including all the componants of it; chakras, aura, pathways, etc\b\par
Elemental Affinity scans \b0 - Scanning a persons energy, core, and form for indicators of what elements their energy is tied to\b\par
Kin scans \b0 - Scanning a persons energy, core, and form for indicators of what kin they are and if they are infact kin rather then being human.\b\par
Past Life scans - \par
Mindscape scans - \par
Soul Dives\b0  - Entering a persons soul landscape\b  \b0 and noting all the details they can, from how it looks, what symbols are there all the way to the souls that reside in them with their appearance, energy, elements, kin and form. \par
\par
\ul\b SOULS:\par
\ulnone Soul Landscape (SL) - \par
Soul distruction \b0 - Souls are not easy to destroy let alone damage so this occurance is quite rare; however for it to occur you will need to get on the bad side of someone with the nessessary abilities to be able to destroy you soul. There is much arguement of what happens when a soul is destroyed; the two biggest ones being that you either go \b poof\b0  and cease to exist or that your soul finds its way back together and reforms as a brand new person with no memories or recollection of anything prior.\b\par
Soul family/tribe - \par
Twin flame \b0 - Your twin flame, or twin soul, is a person who you are destined to feel connected to on a physical, emotional, mental, and spiritual level. Your twin flame represents your ultimate friend, lover or teacher in this life. He or she is the catalyst of your spiritual growth and the mirror of your deepest desires, needs, and fears. Your twin flame will reflect back to you all of your inner shadows, but also your deepest beauty and greatest strengths. In this way, your twin flame helps you to access tremendous emotional, psychological, and spiritual growth.\b\par
Soul mate - \par
\par
\ul SCAMS:\par
\ulnone Indigo Children -\b0  Indigo children was a scam created by a woman to get parents that have children with I think Autism or ADHD, to buy her book and her other shit by calling them special incarnated ascended beings. The other rainbow, crystal, etc, were addition to it via the new age groups and the other people that actually fell for it. \b\par
}
 